[Music]
understanding a dog's body language is
essential for building a strong and
trustworthy relationship with your
four-legged friend this is really
important because dogs are a source of
limitless positivity do you know what
your pet is trying to tell you in
different situations our video will help
you understand your pet for any other
dog don't forget to hit that thumbs up
button and share the video with a mate
who has recently got a puppy let's get
started
there are 16 useful clues for you to
understand your dog better first the
dog's tail situation number one the dog
wags has lowered tail if the dog wags
his tail slowly this means he doesn't
understand what's going on the dog is
asking you what you want him to do so
help him navigate the situation when the
dog's tail is wagging rapidly this means
he admits that you are in charge
situation number two the tail is raised
and tremors slightly this means your dog
is issuing a challenge to your authority
because he considers himself to be in
charge of the situation in this case
your dog sees himself brave and strong
he is in a good mood and trying to say
I'm proud of myself I'm feeling great
situation number three the tail is
tucked between the legs the tuck tail is
a sign that the dog is scared afraid of
pain or feels uncomfortable most often
the dog tucks his tail between his legs
when he is really afraid of something or
someone however if there are no obvious
reasons for concern and your pet tucks
his tail quite often you should take him
to a vet pay attention to the dog's eyes
situation number four the eyes are wide
open and alert this is how your pet
tries to get your attention this means
he's challenging you also your dog
expects you to respond firmly keep in
mind that when you approach an
unfamiliar dog it's better to avoid
looking directly into his eyes for dogs
staring at the eyes means aggression
here is another situation the dog
squints and blinks this means he's ready
to play it's time to throw him his
favorite ball or taken for a walk but if
your dog squints a lot his eyes might be
in pain in this case it's better to take
him to a vet dog's ears might also tell
you something important
your pets mood situation number six the
ears are standing straight up or
inclined forward the dog is showing you
that he's curious and reacting to some
new event in his environment
this means your dog is paying close
attention to everything happening around
situation number seven the ears are
flattened against the head it's a sign
that the dog is scared sometimes your
pet may have only one ear down and most
of the time it's the left one this is
how dogs react to unfamiliar people or
people they are afraid of if nothing
dangerous happens around try to calm
down your dog by petting him in addition
take a closer look at your pets face
situation number eight the dog yawns
this means your dog is grumpy and
nervous puppies do this quite often when
they're surrounded by big unfamiliar
dogs but if your pet yawns after you
this means he's very attached to you
also probably it's just late in time to
sleep situation number nine the dog
licks his face the dog does this when
he's stressed or feeling pressure or
danger
also by this gesture the dog might
encourage potential aggressors to remain
calm situation number 10 the dawned
exposes his teeth but there is no
snarling this means the dog is
protecting his territory pets often do
this while eating never come closer to
an unfamiliar dog actually to any animal
while they're eating because they might
think you're going to steal their food
and finally pay attention to the dog's
stance situation number 11 the dog rolls
over and exposes his belly the dog is
showing you that he trusts you and wants
to please you when you rub your dog's
belly after he rolls over it means you
show him you're pleased with his
behavior keep rubbing dogs love this
situation number 12 dog puts his head on
your knee
this means the dog wants to get
attention and show that he needs you if
your dog touches your hands with his
nose he wants you to pet him
in some cases this means he feels a bit
lonely and wants to play for a while
situation number 13 the dog puts his paw
on your knee if the dog does this with a
very smug look is trying to dominate in
this situation trainers suggest looking
into the dog's eyes and removing the
paws that's how he will understand that
you are in charge the situation number
14 the dog has one front paw raised this
dance means your pet wants to ask you
something maybe he's hungry or wants to
play sometimes dogs do this when they
notice something interesting it's
typical for hunting dog breed situation
number 15 the dog turns his back this
action means that your four-legged
friend trusts you a lot congratulations
you've become a real friend with your
pet situation number 16 the dog shapes
dogs may shake like they shake off water
after a bath as a way of relieving
tension probably your dog was in stress
or met an unpleasant person or dog we
hope now you understand your lovely pet
much better
we also would love to hear your views on
this in the comments below if you're
visiting our channel for the first time
click subscribe to stay on the bright
side of life
[Music]